---
layout: post
title: Deciding to change it up..
---

December 31, 2015

My then-friend Devin, He had a little controller box capable of accessing and digital content on the web that he was willing to sell to me, only problem is that I would have to program it... He had no background in Engineering or Computer Science. He's just a country kid. But he knew how to program the controller box. He recommended I check out CodeAcademy, and from there I started the Python track.  I gave it a couple nights of my attention, then quickly dropped it...

November 21, 2016

I'm sitting in English 150 class, my last english class needed to transfer, when I have a change of heart.  I was previously studying to become a Mechanical Engineer, but with doubts of how long it would take me to earn my degree I decided to rethink my options.  My best friend Ryan has been working as a Software Engineer since high school and has a great life as a coder.  I decided to finish out my night class, but shortly after, I sent an email to my teacher to not expect me to come back.

The next day, I have a long talk with Ryan about the viability of myself as a developer and He was nothing but supportive in my decision.  He explained the process and the outcomes of the industry.  I quickly found out about Coding Bootcamps and had remembered a friend who worked for Galvanize in San Francisco.  I gave her a visit and enjoyed everything about it, the classrooms, the lobby, the faculty, all said "Come Learn".. But the cost was $21,000 and I would need to commute to the city everyday for 6 months.  I researched on coding bootcamp review sites and found Bloc.  Bloc was rated very well, was a remote program, and costs $8000.  The cons would be the peer-to-peer learning I would miss from traditional classrooms and the ability to seek a teacher at anytime.  I decided to go with Bloc.

Before I started Bloc in March, I was recommended by a friend an online coding bootcamp led by Colt Steele on Udemy.com.  I decided to spend December to March to go through Colt's program, and I am grateful for the time I spent doing his online bootcamp first because it gave me a solid frontend foundation.

June 10, 2017

I am 3 months into the program, and just finished my second AngularJS project.  The first several weeks was spent getting up to speed on HTML, CSS and Javascript basics that sets a foundation for the rest of the course.  We built a app called BlocJams using HTML, CSS, Javascript and jQuery, and after completion, we refactored the app to use AngularJS.  The next app we built was BlocChat, mine was called Chatta (I wanted to be different, ok?), and it was AngularJS framework from the ground up. For me, this was the most challenging time I've had at Bloc.  It was an early checkpoint and it was pushing my sanity because I felt incapable.  I reached out to anyone I could, I felt as though I was sinking.  Then, it works... then, you yell at the top of your lungs and smack your head..  My mentor didn't give me any answers and at times I thought he was giving me tough love, but it was all in the practice of searching for your answers to become self reliant.
