---
layout: post
title: Bloc and my time during the program
feature-img: "img/#"
---
Hey people of the internet and potential employers!

Welcome!

This is my story about my journey with Bloc.  
It looks like a review, but has meaning and depth.

Let's start by how I arrived to Bloc in the first place.

I was introduced to programming by a friend around December of 2015.  He worked in Information Technology, but knew how to code in Python.  He turned me on to Codecademy, and it happened to be Christmas break, so I decided to play around with Codecademy: Python track.  After going through a few modules, I found it to work my brain a little to much for winter break, and I wanted to ski, it was put to the side for a while.  

At this point, my friends were starting to enter their last semesters of college and I was still with out a transfer acceptance.  I was burned out on the path I was headed in life.  Finding out that I was unhappy the first spark, and the next day, I decided to quit going to College of Marin.  The next day would be the first day of the rest of my life. (cliché as hell, I know).

The first person I contacted about getting into Web Development was my friend Ryan (who has been an invaluable resource for all of my work done throughout Bloc), who is a Software engineer in Seattle.  We went to High school together and have always stayed great friends.  He told me to go for the career change and gave me all the background needed to make program choices for bootcamps.  I gave my friend Joy a call.  She works at Galvanize in San Francisco and she gave me a tour the next day.  Joy also gave me the break down of what was needed to attend the course, a take home coding challenge, a over-skype coding challenge, and $20,000 by enrollment...

I quickly decided to check out other options.  CourseReport and Switchup became my Yelp.  After reading reviews and curriculum differences, I was tempted to apply to two programs.  App Academy and Bloc.  My first issue was tuition.  I was not working enough to have saved money for size months to not work.  The cost of transportation and TIME to school in the city for that time would be in the thousands.  Bloc became my best option.  They had the tuition right, the time frame, and the resources all remote online.  I was quickly accepted for a Skillsfund loan and the next week I started.

Now is the part where I talk about my experience through the program.

I am a mentor meeting away from finishing up my program.  It has been a tough journey, but it all starts with the basics of HTML and CSS in the first couple weeks.  Previously to the Bloc enrollment, I was already taking a less formal online bootcamp by Colt Steele, which I posted about earlier this year (if you'd like to read it).  Definitely a push start, but that was as far as it went.  As I started finishing up the first module, HTML, CSS and Javascript, the next road ahead was uncharted territory for me and I had to crack down on my work.  Module two is about learning jQuery and AngularJS, a Javascript library and a Javascript framework.  This was to become comfortable with front-end development.

The introduction to Ruby was my next challenge.  It was quite refreshing to learn all the same concepts I had learned with Javascript, but with new syntax.  Ruby is less difficult to understand (notice 'less difficult' rather than 'easier') than Javascript.  Where it really became a challenge was learning the new terms and concepts of Ruby on Rails framework.  My friends and mentor have both told me that my biggest problem was understanding the syntax and language of Ruby.  It was affecting my work, so I reached out to a few peers and I received a digital copy of the book 'The well-ground Rubyist' from Jagvir.  This help quite a bit to understand the creation and manipulation of objects.  

Today, I am working on my Front End Specialization project, a Bloc Pong game appropriately named 'Chong' (they named it Blong... sounds wrong, so I went with 'Chong'..).

## My advice...
for the program would be, find a senior developer friend, someone who isn't your mentor, to help with your learning and projects.  If I didn't have some friends around to get me through the tough spots on a regular basis (3-4 times a week), I would have not passed anything on time.  Also, from experience, it's tempting to plan vacations and trips and lunches and what not because you feel more freedom, but try to avoid all of them and really stick to your studies.  Any 'free' time you think you have should ALWAYS go to programming, coding, codewars, reading, podcasts, and meetups.  I would say that I have not stuck to a strict regiment of this, but I always keep these tasks at the forefront of my mind, always.  It's what an engineer does, thinks about how to accomplish the task at hand in the most effective way.  
